Abraxas
-------

The etymology of Abraxas is based on a Gnostic word applied to the
"Great Archon", or leader/ruler. Each letter of the word in original
Greek represents one of the 7 classic planets. The word was often
engraved on gemstones known as "Abraxas amulets", which were used as
charms. It's a name that gives an idea of what a group of former
high-ranking CIA officials were going for when they created Abraxas
after 9/11.

Like most large intelligence contractors, Abraxas is a company that is
frequently spinning--either spinning companies off from its own
operations or acquiring smaller shops into its portfolio. In 2010,
Abraxas itself was acquired by the Cubic Corporation for \$124 million.
Cubic Corporation is yet another massive ur-company, with two main
divisions: defense applications and transportation systems (for both
defense and civilian purposes--they manufactured the BART smart cards
and fare collection system).

Abraxas got a lot of attention in 2011 after the release of the Global
Intelligence Files for its work on TrapWire. TrapWire is a product and,
in 2004, was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Abraxas. On its face, it
sounds as spooky as you might imagine. This is from the TrapWire
website:

> TrapWire's software is designed to help CCTV cameras identify
> suspicious patterns of behavior and standardize and cross-reference
> reports of suspicious activity from different locations and different
> time periods.

Right? So the basic premise of TrapWire was this: in U.S. cities that
have a "see something, say something" campaign, people who "say
something" will not only have their report sent to their local
authorities but also processed by TrapWire and forwarded to a national
database for DHS and FBI if analysts deem it necessary. (This is
apparently different from the Domain Awareness System reported by the
NYPD in 2012. The NYPD has denied using TrapWire, though there's
evidence to the contrary.)

In 2007, Trapwire spun out from Abraxas and became a separate company,
Abraxas Applications. The GI Files revealed that Stratfor had a contract
with TrapWire giving Stratfor an [8% referral
fee](http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2012/08/trapwire-strafor-biz/) for
sending future contracts to TrapWire. This isn't technically illegal,
but it makes the extensive promoting of TrapWire by VP Fred Burton
(within Stratfor and later in a role as Texas Department of Public
Safety’s assistant director for intelligence) problematic at best,
totally gross at actually honest about it. And while Cubic technically
has no connection to TrapWire since they acquired Abraxas after TrapWire
spun out, the overlapping interests of transit design and mass
centralized surveillance are perhaps indicative of the culture of the
intelligence-industrial complex.

### Boeing

-   I've found a few press releases from 2011 about Boeing opening a
    32,000-square-foot [Cyber Engagement
    Center](http://www.boeing.com/boeing/defense-space/cyber_solutions/cec/index.page)(CEC)
    in Annapolis Junction, "right across the highway from the National
    Security Agency." Given how many square feet the office allegedly
    has and the level of fanfare associated with its creation, I'm
    assuming that it is in this newer building. The only company
    affiliated with Boeing who gave this building as their address was
    [Kestrel Boeing](http://www.kestrelei.com/).

Kestrel's primary service is a software called TAC, which stands for
"tripwire analytic capability" (not to be confused with TrapWire). A
DefenseNews article says that TAC "swiftly and automatically apply
thousands of sophisticated queries to documents, data streams, and
structured and unstructured data sets." It goes on, "TAC clients include
the Defense Intelligence Agency, the Air Force Intelligence Analysis
Agency and the Joint Staff’s director of intelligence, who uses TAC for
real time searching of data on the Defense Department’s classified
network, SIPRNET."

So basically it's another goddamn shiny data integration tool that makes
people look really clever when seen using it in stock photos. TAC is
mentioned as among the resourced provided by the CEC, as well as
[NarusInsight](http://www.boeing.com/advertising/info_solution/_network/index.html).
Narus was the company whose technology was used in the AT&T offices in
2006 **aaaah finish this**

#### NarusInsight

http://www.boeing.com/advertising/info\_solution/\_network/index.html
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NarusInsight

A Note on the Building
----------------------

132 National Business Parkway was initially built in 1999 for Ameritrade
(now TD Ameritrade), which selected the office location partly due to
the promise of a \$1 million state grant to create 300 jobs for the
county. It lost that grant in 2001 when it failed to meet that goal,
moving to another COPT-owned property in Columbia, Maryland.

Harris Corp
-----------

Harris Corp describes its history as going back to 1890s. Initially in
typesetting and print, through a series of mergers and acquisitions
shifted to electronic communications in 1960s (getting into the space
game, hence having the majority of their offices in Florida). As a
publicly traded entity, it's possible to learn a little more about them
than other contractors. Their 2013 revenue was around \$5 billion.

Similar to the Abraxas case, Harris has a technically completely legal
but unquestionably uncomfortable connection to Apple's recent foray into
biometrics, as documented in a release by Anonymous. AuthenTec, the
company acquired by Apple that developed its fingerprint sensor
technology, was a subsidiary spun off from Harris in 1998. The company's
board included former Raytheon employees, and its founders (obviously)
came out of Harris Corporation. In 2010, Robert Grady, former Managing
Partner and Chairman of Carlyle Venture Partners and a member of The
Carlyle Group’s Management Committee became Authentec's chairman of the
board. Less than six months later he resigned, with implications that
Grady left out of frustration that the company was not moving more
aggressively toward a licensing agreement with Apple.

Again, this isn't an accusation about Harris. They've done nothing
wrong. It's just interesting to look at the origins of consumer
biometric technology and consider the motivations for the development of
that technology.

### Booz Allen Hamilton

Booz Allen Hamilton dominates the landscape of the NBP--its name appears
on three separate buildings in the office park. They're not necessarily
the most dominant in the landscape of federal contracting--they're only
the 14th largest federal contractor to the U.S. Government--but for work
specifically related to intelligence, they represent a big part of the
contractor workforce **actual numbers please**.99% of Booz Allen's
revenue comes from the United States government.

Knowing where to begin with this almost 100-year-old company's history
or highlights thereof can be a challenge--where to start? Perhaps the
fact they're (mostly) owned by the Carlyle Group? Or maybe their record
of serving as a revolving door between government intelligence officials
and executives? (Booz Allen leadership has included James Woolsey,
former director of the CIA, Mike McConnell, former Director of National
Intelligence, and current Director of National Intelligence James
Clapper.) Or maybe their 2012 pivot to North Africa and the Middle East,
and their role in essentially creating the equivalent of the NSA for the
government of the United Arab Emirates?

My personal favorite is the (admittedly minor) connection between Booz
Allen Hamilton and the formation of the band The Police. Stewart
Copeland, one of the band's founding members, was the son of Miles
Copeland, one of the first agents for the CIA. Copeland was heavily
involved in coordinating coup d'etats in the Middle east (in Syria in
1949 and Iran in 1953), and between 1953 and 1955 he worked as a
consultant for Booz Allen Hamilton while still a [non-official cover
operative](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-official_cover) for the
CIA, officially returning to the agency in 1995. Stewart's formative
years in the Middle East informed his own musical tendencies and
attitudes toward authority.

### L-3 Communications

One of the most frustrating aspects of trying to understand the
structures of large systems integrator-type companies is that they
aren't really just one company. They never are. They're a bricolage of
mergers and acquisitions, frequently spinning off their acquisitions
into new companies. The process of acquiring and then spinning off a
company is a strange alchemy, transforming practices that are decades
old into something fresh, dynamic, desirable. L-3 is an expert at this
practice, as that's essentially how they were created: following
Lockheed's merger with Martin Marietta in 1995, Frank Lanza purchased a
set of business units that Lockheed Martin no longer wanted with funding
from Lehman Brothers (L-3 Communications' name refers to the last names
of its founders: Lanza, Robert LaPenta, and Lehman). The company grew
rapidly after going public in 1998 by essentially by acquiring other
companies to give it greater entry into the military and intelligence
contracting world. Notable purchases include military training
contractor MPRI (purchased in 2001, later spun off as [Engility
Coroporation](http://articles.washingtonpost.com/2012-07-17/business/35488926_1_l-3-engility-capital-investments)
in 2012) and [Titan
Corp](http://www.sourcewatch.org/index.php?title=Titan_Corporation)
(purchased [in
2005](http://www.nytimes.com/2005/06/03/business/03titan.html?ref=l3communicationsholdings&_r=0);
divisions have been operating under different names since 2007).

### Proteus Technologies

-   etymology: In Greek mythology, Proteus is an early sea-god or god of
    rivers and oceanic bodies of water...some who ascribe to him a
    specific domain call him the god of "elusive sea change," which
    suggests the constantly changing nature of the sea or the liquid
    quality of water in general. He can foretell the future, but...will
    change his shape to avoid having to; he will answer only to someone
    who is capable of capturing him. From this feature of Proteus comes
    the adjective protean, with the general meaning of "versatile",
    "mutable", "capable of assuming many forms".

-   Founded 1999, moved to NBP in 2006

-   From the company LinkedIn site:

> Our commitment to our employees extends to our employee advocacy group
> as well as a variety of fun and quirky company events which have
> included Magic the Gathering Nights, zombie-themed 5Ks and BBQs.

-   List their specialties as "Cyber Engineering, Analytic Engineering,
    SIGINT Engineering, Applied Research"
    -   Specifically apply that work to DHS/TSA, DoD/C4ISR, and HHS/CMS
        (Health and Human Services/Centers for Medicare and Medicaid)

-   January 2013 press release about its "multi-million dollar,
    five-year Prime contract within the Federal Intelligence Community"

-   Lists various "partner" companies (i.e., they subcontract to some of
    the other big companies)

### CSC

### TASC

### General Dynamics

### L-3 Communications

### The MITRE Corporation

### Raytheon

### Scitor Corporation

### Argon ST

### the Federal Bureau of Prisons Mid-Atlantic Regional Office

### Rohde & Schwarz Federal Systems

### Altamira Technologies Corporation

### Ventura Solutions

### BAE Systems Information Technology

### Oracle

### Praxis Engineering

### IBM

### Deloitte

### COPT Property Management

### TexelTek

### Exelis

### Raytheon

### Sitec

### ITT

### Sotera

### Apptis

### Teradata Government Systems
