---
divid: coordinateleap-properties
hasimage: false 
zindex: 0
---
COPT explicitly describes itself in its marketing and its annual SEC filing as "serving the specialized requirements of U.S. Government agencies and defense contractors engaged in defense information technology and national security-related activities." Looking at where COPT owns properties in the United States is a really easy way to identify major nodes in the intelligence-industrial complex--its portfolio includes sites in, for instance, San Antonio, Texas (a stone's throw from the National Cryptologic Center) and Colorado Springs, Colorado (just a little ways away from NORTHCOM). While lots of major real estate companies have identified this market of next-to-government-facilities as profitable, COPT is seemingly the only one explicitly and almost exclusively dedicating itself to that market. 

The National Business Park’s annualized rental revenue is $107,548,246. As noted in a COPT 2010 presentation from the Smart Procurement conference, over 60% of the top 50 intelligence contractors are tenants in COPT properties. 

I initially became interested in the National Business Park after going on a trip to Fort Meade to [attend the trial](http://lifewinning.com/longreads/wordsmeanthings) of Chelsea Manning. At the time, I couldn’t stop telling people about the landscape—or, more specifically, about how little there was to say about the landscape. Suburban Maryland was so perversely boring that I couldn’t stop looking at it, I couldn’t stop thinking about it. I decided to learn more about its inhabitants. As I learned more about the world of defense and intelligence contracting, it became clear the NBP was a bit of a mecca--or, at least, a clever narrative device for framing an inventory of top intelligence contractors. Both James Bamford, in *The Shadow Factory*, and Tim Shorrock in *Spies for Hire* make reference to NBP. Little is said about the owners of the property, and what writing is out there is admittedly dry business reporting type stuff. They are often vague about their own practices--press releases about new buildings will mention "[a strategic tenant](http://online.wsj.com/article/PR-CO-20130903-903335.html)" at a new building they've broken ground on, and in one [article](http://www.post-gazette.com/businessnews/2005/07/13/Property-Report-The-secret-business-of-building-spy-buildings/stories/200507130209) COPT claims to not always know who its tenants are. 

Depending on how you search for the National Business Park, you'll get a few different answers for where it actually is. Technically, it's in Annapolis Junction, an unincorporated community in Anne Arundel County, Maryland. But community is a generous definition. Annapolis Junction is a cipher of a place--named for a a rail junction on the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad in 1840, most of the land that made up "Annapolis Junction" was repurposed by the government to create Fort Meade in 1917. Industrial facilities and offices, the CSX rail line, and of course Fort Meade make up the majority of its "community." According to the 2010 Census, 2 people were recorded as living in its zip code, 20701. To call it liminal would imply a potentiality that it does not have. It is merely there. 